To start off, what motivated me to make this web app was that my younger sister was talking about how she wanted a simple web app that can do journaling and record your todos. Therefore, I also put effort in making the user interface more simple and elegant, and having the usage intuitive. I will first go over the global components, then into specifics. 

Firstly, the title and theme of this webapp is “Luminous” because I wanted the users to become clear on what they need to do (todo list), what they did in the past (journal), and how their mood changes over time (mood tracker). The logo is a clipart I found online but elegantly represents the theme of this web app, because it represents the north star, and therefore corresponds with the title. The colors and hover effects are unified for a more simple user interface.

Now going into specifics, with the register and login page, the users access the table “users” in “users.db”. The table contains the specific id, name, username, and password hash for the users. The sqlite3 queries check if passed in values in register or login form are valid by accessing this table.

After the user logs in, they are greeted by “welcome, {{ name }}.” The user’s name is embedded in multiple places to make their user experience personalized. In the homepage, the users see their todo list. This todo list is also connected to a table called “todos” in “users.db” in the backend. Each todo has the user’s id, todo text, todo id, and an indicator if the task is completed or not. When the user checks their todo, a sql query flips (updates) the complete indicator in the table, thereby migrating the todo to either the completed or incomplete todo category. I wanted to make this so it's clear for the user what they have done and what they must do. Each of the delete buttons also has the todoid associated with them. Therefore, clicking on a specific delete button will trigger a sql query to delete the entire data row from the table. I associated each todo with a delete button to make it easier for the user to delete their todos. Deleting and updating todo categories are both possible because of the todoid associated with them, and passing them into flask.

With the journal entries. I wanted to make each journal entry a card rather than a simple list, not only for the simple and elegant design, but also to allow the user to hold value in every journal entry that they write. The left-borders were placed to make the cards visible and stylish. The journal is also connected to the table “journal” in “user.db” in the backend. This table once again stores the user id to render the right journal entries for the specific user (just like the todos). It also has a mood emoji for rendering on the journal entries page and also for simplicity in choosing moods while writing their journal entries. A mood value is also brought in from each entry for the mood tracker. The table also stores the title, text, and timestamp for the user to later see either on the journal entries page or while viewing an existing journal entry. The created date is also stored to average out the mood during the mood tracker. A click on the card to open the entry is designed for simplicity and style. Clicking the card to open an entry or clicking the delete button works because of an entry id associated with each of them, and the click would trigger a sql query.

When a new journal entry template is opened and saved, a sql query inserts the values in the database, while editing will update it. The sliders were placed once again for simplicity and design. It is much easier for users to pick out their mood rather than “choose your mood from these words” or “these values”. I also included a javascript to allow indents in the text boxes.

Finally, the mood tracker uses matplotlib to draw the graph, save it as a image file, and the html page will render that image. I placed the emojis on top of the bars as labels for a better user experience. It is much more visible than simple numbers. However, it is limited to the most recent 5 days in ascending order for visibility.

Overall, I am very happy about the outcome of this project, and would like to thank the CS50 community for this special experience!
